exp1

AIM:
To Install Git And Creating Repositories.
DESCRIPTION:
GIT: Git is a version control system that allows developers to track changes in their code.
GITHUB: GitHub is a web-based hosting service for git repositories.
REPOSITORY: Repository is the most basic element of GitHub. It’s a place where you can
store your code,your files,and revision history.Repositories can have multiple collaborators and
be either private or public.
STEP BY STEP PROCEDURE:

Double-click the executable you just downloaded, then click "Next" to move through the

installation prompts.
The first is the text editor Git will use. The default selection is Vim. Vim is ubiquitous and a
hallmark of command-line interfaces everywhere but learning to use its idiosyncratic
commands can be daunting. You should probably pick something else instead, like Visual
Studio Code, Sublime, NotePad++, or any other plain text editor you like.

The second is the way Git integrates itself into your PC's PATH. Make sure that the "Git
From The Command Line And Also From 3rd-Party Software" is selected.

Click through the remaining options, and wait for everything to finish downloading. The time
requires to download everything will vary depending on what you chose to install. The default

selection results in a download that is about 270 megabytes.

MANAGING PRIVATE AND PUBLIC REPOSITORY
MAKING A REPOSITORY PRIVATE:
• GitHub will detach public forks of the public repository and put them into a new
network. Public forks are not made private.
• If you're using GitHub Free for personal accounts or organizations, some features won't
be available in the repository after you change the visibility to private. Any published
GitHub Pages site will be automatically unpublished. If you added a custom domain to
the GitHub Pages site, you should remove or update your DNS records before making
the repository private, to avoid the risk of a domain takeover.
• GitHub will no longer include the repository in the GitHub Archive Program.
• GitHub Advanced Security features, such as code scanning, will stop working.

MAKING A REPOSITORY PUBLIC:
• GitHub will detach private forks and turn them into a standalone private repository.
• If you're converting your private repository to a public repository as part of a move
toward creating an open source project.
• Once your repository is public, you can also view your repository's community profile
to see whether your project meets best practices for supporting contributors.
• The repository will automatically gain access to GitHub Advanced Security features.
Changing a repository’s Visibility
1. On GitHub.com, navigate to the main page of the repository.
2. Under your repository name, click Settings. If you cannot see the "Settings" tab, select
the dropdown menu, then click Settings.

3. In the "Danger Zone" section, to the right of to "Change repository visibility",
click Change visibility.
4. Select a visibility.
5. To verify that you're changing the correct repository's visibility, type the name of the
repository you want to change the visibility of.
6. Click I understand, change repository visibility.



RESULT
Installation Of Git And Creating Repositories Is Done Successfully




exp6
Aim The aim of this experiment is to create implementation of core review in git

Description

Git is a powerful tool for version control, but it’s also a crucial tool for collaborating with remote
teams. When working remotely, effective communication and collaboration arekey to ensure that
your team is working together towards a common goal.
Use a shared repository Using a shared repository is the foundation of effective collaboration
with Git. By hosting your repository on a remote server, you can give your team members access
to the latest version of your code, regardless of their location.
Create a new repository: git init
Clone a repository: git clone [respository URL]
Add a remote repository: git remote add [name] [repository URL]
Fetch changes from a remote repository: git fetchPull
changes from a remote repository: git pull Push
changes to a remote repository: git push Use
Branching and merging Branching and merging are powerful features of Git that allow you to
work on multiple versions of your code simultaneously, without interfering with each other’s
work. By using branching and merging effectively, your team can work on different features or
bug fixes in parallel, without causing conflicts.
Create a new branch: git branch [name]Switch
to a branch: git checkout [name]Merge a
branch: git merge [name] Resolve merge
conflicts: git mergetool Delete a branch: git
Ex. No. 6 IMPLEMENTATION OF CORE REVIEW IN GIT


branch -d [name]
Use Pull requests Pull requests are a great way to review and merge changes from differentteam
members before they are merged into the main codebase. By using pull requests, you can ensure
that your code is reviewed and tested before it is merged into the main branch, which can help
prevent bugs and other issues.
Create a new pull request: git request-pull [branch] [repository URL]
Review and merge a pull request: git pull-request
Close a pull request: git request-pull -C [branch] [repository URL]
Use Issue Tracking Issue tracking is a great way to keep track of bugs, feature requests, and
other issues that need to be addressed in your code. By using an issue tracking system like
GitHub Issues, you can assign tasks to team members, track progress, and ensure that all issues
are addressed in a timely manner.
Create a new issue: git commit -m “[issue number] [commit message]”
Assign an issue to a team member: git assign [username]
Clone an issue: git clone [issue number] Reopen an
issue: git reopen [issue number] Communicate
Effectively Effective communication is key to collaboration, especially in a remote team setting.
Use tools like Slack or Microsoft Teams to stay in touch with your team members, and use video
calls or screen sharing to discuss code changes or work on problems together.
Start a video call: git video-call [username]
Share yourscreen: gitscreen-share
Send a message: git message [username] [message]
Use Git hooks Git hooks are scripts that Git runs automatically at certain points in the
Gitworkflow. You can use Git hooks to automate repetitive tasks, enforce coding standards, or
perform other tasks that are important to your team’s workflow.
Install a git hook: git init [hook name]
Write a git hook script: nano.git/hooks/[hook name]

Make the Git hook script executable: chmod +x .git/hooks/[hook name]
Use Gitsubmodules Git submodules are repositories that are embedded inside other repositories.
You can use Git submodules to manage dependencies, or to includeshared code in multiple
projects.
Add a Git submodule: git submodule add [repository URL]
Update a Gitsubmodule: gitsubmodule update
Remove a Gitsubmodule: gitsubmodule deinit [submodule path]
Use Git aliases Git aliases are shortcuts for commonly used Git commands. You can useGit
aliases to save time and improve your productivity when working with Git.
Set up a Git alias: git config –global alias.[alias name] ‘[Git command]’
Use a Git alias: git [alias name]
Output

Result : The experiment to create implementation of core review in git is successfully
executed and verified
